Remember when we creating the footer and registering sidebars we defined some variables here. And we mentioned
that these variables will be in the options page later.
So let's do this now. Let's do couple of options for the footer kayout and the footer background.
So these variables exist in three places; in the info, we have the background and in the widgets, we have the
layout and background.
And also when we registered the sideboards we have them here.
So let's have these three files open and let's create some new fields in the Customizer.
So I've added some widgets here.
In order to see what we're doing.
So now let's add some more settings and controls in the Footer Options. So let's go to customize.php and let's
start by adding the footer background. So let's add a new control or setting to the $wp-customize class.
And let's call it of course prefixed and "_themename_footer_bg" and give it an array options.
So I have a "default" value and it's defaulted to "dark".
and we also have to sanitize.
So let's add a function to sanitize.
So the this option will be a drop down.
It will be either dark or light.
So to sanitize that we can use sanitized_text_field because a dropdown will return a text eventually.
But we will also need to make sure that this text is either dark or light and not something else.
So let's create a custom function and let's call it first prefix and "sanitize_
footer_bg"
And let's write this function now.
So "function".
And it receives the inputs.
So we'll define a variable called $valid and it will be an array of valid options.
So we have "light" and we have "dark".
These are the only valid options.
And then we need to check that our input exists in this array so we will use in_array() function.
And it takes the input and the array that we will check against. And it can take a third argument which
is a boolean and if it's true it will check for the value on type. I set it to "true".
And if the value is in the array we'll return it.
And if not we will return the default value which is "dark".
So now we're sanitizing the footer background. Let's now create a control for this setting.
To, let's copy that
and it should be called after the setting. And an array of options.
So we need the type to be dropdown.
So it will be an HTML select.
So let's call "select".
We have a "label"
let's call it, of course escaped and translated, "Footer Background"
and theme domain, our text domain. And for the select we also have an option to add the choices.
And it will be an array and the array will hold the values and the keys. So "light", we have "light" and "dark".
So the key would be the value of the input and the value in the array would be the text that appears
in the dropdown.
So of course any text should be escaped and translated.
And we need to add this in the footer section so let's copy the section from the site info control. It will
be the same.
So let's save now and see. We should have a dropdown in the section, footer section.
So let's reload.
And here we have it.
So let's now change it.
And of course nothing will happen because we haven't use it in our template yet.
So let's do that.
Let's now go to the places that we need to replace the hard coded variables with the options.
So let's start by the sidebars and let's replace the hard coded text by "get_theme_mod"
and the "name" let's copy it.
And the "default" value which we chose to the "dark".
But remember this is a value from the database so we need to escape it or sanitize it. So what we can do
is we can actually use the same function that we used here.
We already defined. So let's do that. And this will ensure that whatever comes from the get_theme_mod() it will be
either the value if it's a valid value in this array or the "dark"which is a default value.
So this should be perfect for sanitization here.
So let's copy this and we'll use the same thing in the other files.
Here and in the info.
Just one quick notes.
If you're submitting this theme to Theme Forest,
I'm not sure if they still do that, but from my experience they will search your theme for echo and
then $.
And if they find any "echo $" for them that will mean that you're echoing an unescaped variable.
So although we sanitize that here and we're just echoing it
sometimes the reviewers there will consider this unescaped. So you can either just add, instead of adding this function
here, just add it here directly. Or maybe you can just use esc_attr here before echoing.
It won't make any difference but just to avoid rejections for this reason.
So I'm not gonna do it now but I just thoughtI should tell you.
So let's go now to the Customizer.
And we should now have.
All right.
Ok. So
We
We define the function here.
And we are using in sidebars.php and however in functions.php
we include this file after this file.
So we just need to include this file first so that when we use the function this file
it will be already defined. And let's refresh now.
And let's go to Footer Options and change this to "Light". And it's changed.
But right now it's refreshing the whole website. So let's change that.
So let's add
postMessage here,
"transport".
And Let's create a partial or actually instead of creating a new partial let's use this one but modify
it.
So now we will need to add the background setting here as well to refresh this partial when the setting
is changed.
So this is a comma. And also the partial should not only get the info template but also the widgets template.
So now we will get the widgets and the info.
So now we have to change the selector.  So the selector that holds both of them is and it looks like I
forgot to save the widgets that I put. So let's add one.
So the DIV that holds,
apparently we don't have a DIV that holds both the site info and the widgets part. So let's do that
in the footer.
and we can use an HTML5 FOOTER tag here.
So let's give it an ID so the "footer".
And it also takes a "role of "contentinfo"
"contentinfo".
And let's close the FOOTER.
And so now we have this footer DIV and it holds both template parts.
So in the Customizer we'll change this to the ID of the footer.
And this way we will just need to replace the contents and not the whole footer ID.
So we'll set this to "false". And when this's refreshed it will get these parts and put them inside the
footer without replacing the footer DIV itself.
So I think it should work now.
So let's try.
I always forget to save the widget.
So let's add it.
And let's publish this time.
All right so now we need to try and change this one.
And as you can see it only loaded the footer.
And now we change this it will also run the same partial because we have now two settings in this
partial and both of them will load the both template parts inside the footer that contain them.
So I think for this one we might remove it. And it's working fine with the JavaScript postMessage
technique so let's just make sure. And this's fine and this is also fine. So let's go ahead now and create
our last field for the footer which is the columns for the widgets.
See you in the next lecture.